README.md, before:

# Quarto Nvim Kickstarter

Companion to <https://github.com/quarto-dev/quarto-nvim>.

This requires Neovim >= **v0.9.5** (https://github.com/neovim/neovim/releases/tag/stable)

## Videos

Check out this playlist for a full guide and walkthrough:
https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLabWm-zCaD1axcMGvf7wFxJz8FZmyHSJ7

## Setup

Clone this repo into `~/.config/nvim/` or copy-paste just the parts you like.

If you already have your own configuration, check out `lua/plugins/quarto.lua`
for the configuration of plugins directly relevant to your Quarto experience.
The comments in this file will also point to to other plugins required for
the full functionality.

This configuration can make use of a "Nerd Font" for icons and symbols.
Download one here: <https://www.nerdfonts.com/> and set it as your terminal font.

### Unix, Linux Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/jmbuhr/quarto-nvim-kickstarter.git ~/.config/nvim
```

### Windows Powershell Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/jmbuhr/quarto-nvim-kickstarter.git "$env:LOCALAPPDATA\nvim"
```

The telescope file finder uses `fzf` for fuzzy finding via the [telescope-fzf-native](https://github.com/nvim-telescope/telescope-fzf-native.nvim) extension.
It will automatically install `fzf`, but needs some requirements which are not pre-installed on Windows.
Check out the previous link for those (or comment out the extension in `./lua/plugins/ui.lua`).

Now you are good to go!

## Updating

Certain updates to plugins may leave behind unused plugin data. If this configuration produces an error on startup, try removing those first, allowing the lazy.nvim package manager to recreate the correct plugin structure:

```bash
rm -r ~/.local/share/nvim
rm -r ~/.local/state/nvim
```

## Screenshots

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17450586/210392419-3ee2b3e3-e805-4e36-99ab-6922abe3a66b.png)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17450586/210392573-57c0ad1c-5db0-4f2a-9119-608bd2398494.png)

Use the integrated neovim terminal to execute code chunks:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17450586/211403680-c60e8e89-ea9b-48bd-881d-37df2bc924a3.png)

## Links to the plugins

Some of the plugins included are:

- <https://github.com/folke/lazy.nvim>
- <https://github.com/jpalardy/vim-slime>
- <https://github.com/neovim/nvim-lspconfig>
- <https://github.com/nvim-treesitter/nvim-treesitter>
- <https://github.com/hrsh7th/nvim-cmp>
  - <https://github.com/hrsh7th/cmp-nvim-lsp>
  - <https://github.com/hrsh7th/cmp-buffer>
  - <https://github.com/hrsh7th/cmp-path>
  - <https://github.com/hrsh7th/cmp-calc>
  - <https://github.com/hrsh7th/cmp-emoji>
  - <https://github.com/f3fora/cmp-spell>
  - <https://github.com/kdheepak/cmp-latex-symbols>
  - <https://github.com/jc-doyle/cmp-pandoc-references>
- <https://github.com/L3MON4D3/LuaSnip>
  - <https://github.com/saadparwaiz1/cmp_luasnip>
  - <https://github.com/rafamadriz/friendly-snippets>

Commit message:

docs(readme): add install instructions for image.nvim dependencies

README.md, after:

# Quarto Nvim Kickstarter

Companion to <https://github.com/quarto-dev/quarto-nvim>.

This requires Neovim >= **v0.9.5** (https://github.com/neovim/neovim/releases/tag/stable)

## Videos

Check out this playlist for a full guide and walkthrough:
https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLabWm-zCaD1axcMGvf7wFxJz8FZmyHSJ7

## Setup

Clone this repo into `~/.config/nvim/` or copy-paste just the parts you like.

If you already have your own configuration, check out `lua/plugins/quarto.lua`
for the configuration of plugins directly relevant to your Quarto experience.
The comments in this file will also point to to other plugins required for
the full functionality.

This configuration can make use of a "Nerd Font" for icons and symbols.
Download one here: <https://www.nerdfonts.com/> and set it as your terminal font.

### Unix, Linux Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/jmbuhr/quarto-nvim-kickstarter.git ~/.config/nvim
```

For displaying images in your terminal a recent version of [kitty](https://sw.kovidgoyal.net/kitty/) or [wezterm](https://wezfurlong.org/wezterm/index.html) is required
as well as the dependecies of [image.nvim](https://github.com/3rd/image.nvim) (see `./lua/plugins/ui.lua`).
Additionally, if you plan to use this through [tmux](https://github.com/tmux/tmux) make sure to have version >= 3.3a.

If you are unable to install those in your enviroment, disable the plugin by setting `enabled = false`.

Example dependencies install on ubuntu-based systems:

```bash
sudo apt install imagemagick
sudo apt install libmagickwand-dev
sudo apt install liblua5.1-0-dev
sudo apt installl luajit
```

Manually installing luarocks and the magick rock is no longer required, this is handled by [luarocks.nvim](https://github.com/vhyrro/luarocks.nvim).

> [!NOTE] Do this before opening nvim, otherwise `luarocks.nvim`
> might pick up the wrong luarocks version.
> If you forgot this step, you can do `:Lazy build luarocks.nvim` again manually after installation
> to fix it.


### Windows Powershell Installation

```bash
git clone https://github.com/jmbuhr/quarto-nvim-kickstarter.git "$env:LOCALAPPDATA\nvim"
```

The telescope file finder uses `fzf` for fuzzy finding via the [telescope-fzf-native](https://github.com/nvim-telescope/telescope-fzf-native.nvim) extension.
It will automatically install `fzf`, but needs some requirements which are not pre-installed on Windows.
Check out the previous link for those (or comment out the extension in `./lua/plugins/ui.lua`).

Now you are good to go!

## Updating

Certain updates to plugins may leave behind unused plugin data. If this configuration produces an error on startup, try removing those first, allowing the lazy.nvim package manager to recreate the correct plugin structure:

```bash
rm -r ~/.local/share/nvim
rm -r ~/.local/state/nvim
```

## Screenshots

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17450586/210392419-3ee2b3e3-e805-4e36-99ab-6922abe3a66b.png)
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17450586/210392573-57c0ad1c-5db0-4f2a-9119-608bd2398494.png)

Use the integrated neovim terminal to execute code chunks:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/17450586/211403680-c60e8e89-ea9b-48bd-881d-37df2bc924a3.png)
